Train to be a teacher (prototype) (#2401)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-a-degree.md

##Train in school (fee paying)
There are different programmes that focus on training you while you teach in a school:

- School-centred initial teacher training (SCITT)
- School Direct (fee-funded)

SCITT programmes are delivered by a network of schools, providing school-based training. You won’t be paid a salary while you are training and will pay fees.

School Direct (fee-funded) programmes are delivered by groups of schools in collaboration with a SCITT or university. The content and structure of a School Direct course is broadly similar to a SCITT course and they don't pay you a salary. Some SCITT and School Direct (fee-funded) programmes give you a PGCE or PGDE in addition to QTS. Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Fees are usually around £9,250 but you can:

- get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
- [apply for a student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

You should check the fees for a particular course you are interested in with the course provider.

##Earn a salary while you train

> These courses are usually only suitable for people who already have relevant teaching experience or are already working as unqualified teachers. You may be able to study part-time.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this applies to Teach First, or potentially even the apprenticeship stuff. I **think** this only applies to the School Direct (salaries). We can clarify this with Phoebe later, but this might need a rejig.

Reviewer 2: I think we should perhaps also say something about salaried courses being limited in number (better worded than that) - UR consistently shows that people have the wrong expectations about this

[Read about Nathan’s experience of salaried teacher training](/my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/salaried-teacher-training-classroom-learning)

###School direct (salaried)
If you have the right experience, School direct (salaried) give you QTS with many courses also offering a PGCE or PGDE. It takes a year to complete.

[Find out more about School direct](https://www.ucas.com/teaching-option/school-direct-salaried) (salaried)

###Postgraduate teaching apprenticeship
Apprenticeships offer a year of school-based training which gives you QTS. Some also offer a PGCE or equivalent qualification.

[Find out more about apprenticeships](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/provide-training-for-postgraduate-teaching-apprenticeships)

###Teach First
Teach First is a 2-year programme leading to a PGDE and QTS. At the end of your first year, you will have QTS. The PGDE is awarded at the end of the second year.

[Find out more about Teach First](https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/)

##Find your course

This is a CTA. You can search for postgraduate courses that lead to QTS (not including Teach First).

Search for a course

##Also on this page

Why teach?
##Making a difference

> Find out how teachers are having a positive impact on their student’s lives, from getting kids coding the future to inspiring the entrepreneurs of tomorrow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find out how teachers are having a positive impact on their students' lives, from getting kids coding the future to inspiring the entrepreneurs of tomorrow.
```
Put the apostrophe after the s? (I could be wrong, apostrophes give me a headache)

Reviewer 2: These stories are probably very old - we may need to be careful about surfacing them more prominently (although the concept is definitely right!)

---
title: If you have a degree
related_content:
    Get support training to teach if you're disabled: "/get-support-training-to-teach-if-you-are-disabled"
    Improve your subject knowledge : "/improve-your-subject-knowledge"
    Tips on applying for teacher training : "/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training"
extra_content:
    - content/train-to-be-a-teacher/if-you-have-a-degree/events-near-you
---

If you have a degree, or you’re currently studying for one, there are different routes you can take to getting [qualified teacher status](/what-is-qts) (QTS). You need QTS to work in the majority of schools in England including state maintained primary, secondary and special schools.

> We also have information for people outside of the UK who want to get [international qualified teacher status](/international-qualified-teacher-status) (iQTS) or [come to teach in England](/come-to-england-to-teach-if-you-are-a-teacher-from-outside-the-uk).

Reviewer 2: Might be worth checking with the international team what the best phrase is to use here for 'people outside of the UK' as it may be relevant for international students that are currently in the UK?

Reviewer 2: Also - we also have a page for international students who are not qualified teachers (https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student) - need to link to this too?

Reviewer 3: I've changed the link the train to teach international one as it makes more sense on this page and also we can just say international student.

##Study as a postgraduate student

> You can study for [a PGCE or PGDE](/what-is-a-pgce) (an academic qualification) at a university. This is one way to get QTS. Most of the time you will be in schools on placement but there is some academic learning. Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Reviewer 2: On Find, they talk about 'PGCE with QTS' - I think we should be consistent rather than say just study for a PGCE?

Fees for full-time courses are usually around £9,250 but you can:

- get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
- [apply for a student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

Fees are higher for international students.

You should check the fees for a particular course you are interested in with the course provider.

> ##Train in school (fee paying)

Reviewer 2: I think this heading is a bit misleading, because it makes it sound like uni-led courses don't have training in school?

- School Direct (fee-funded)

SCITT programmes are delivered by a network of schools, providing school-based training. You won’t be paid a salary while you are training and will pay fees.

School Direct (fee-funded) programmes are delivered by groups of schools in collaboration with a SCITT or university. The content and structure of a School Direct course is broadly similar to a SCITT course and they don't pay you a salary. Some SCITT and School Direct (fee-funded) programmes give you a PGCE or PGDE in addition to QTS. Courses typically take one year but you may be able to study part-time.

Fees are usually around £9,250 but you can:

- get [funding that you do not have to pay back](/funding-your-training#bursaries-and-scholarships) for certain subjects
- [apply for a student loan](/funding-your-training#tuition-fee-and-maintenance-loans)

You should check the fees for a particular course you are interested in with the course provider.

##Earn a salary while you train
These courses are usually only suitable for people who already have relevant teaching experience or are already working as unqualified teachers. You may be able to study part-time.

> [Read about Nathan’s experience of salaried teacher training](/my-story-into-teaching/teacher-training-stories/salaried-teacher-training-classroom-learning)

Reviewer 2: This is probably a very old case study and refers to NQTs which don't exist any more!

###School direct (salaried)
If you have the right experience, School direct (salaried) give you QTS with many courses also offering a PGCE or PGDE. It takes a year to complete.

> [Find out more about School direct](https://www.ucas.com/teaching-option/school-direct-salaried) (salaried)

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't be linking to UCAS for postgraduate content

Reviewer 3: I've linked to Find. There's no information on the current page. If there's a better place to link to we can update it.

###Postgraduate teaching apprenticeship
Apprenticeships offer a year of school-based training which gives you QTS. Some also offer a PGCE or equivalent qualification.

> [Find out more about apprenticeships](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/provide-training-for-postgraduate-teaching-apprenticeships)

Reviewer 2: This link is for apprenticeship providers - this gov.uk page links back to a page on the GIT legacy site for candidates!

Suggest not having a link here - we need to add some proper apprenticeships content for candidates

Reviewer 3: I've removed this altogether for now. It's not much use without a link and that's what you get when you google it, which is what users will do without a link.

###Teach First
Teach First is a 2-year programme leading to a PGDE and QTS. At the end of your first year, you will have QTS. The PGDE is awarded at the end of the second year.

[Find out more about Teach First](https://www.teachfirst.org.uk/)

##Find your course

This is a CTA. You can search for postgraduate courses that lead to QTS (not including Teach First).

> Search for a course

Reviewer 2: Presume we will add a button before UR?

https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses

Reviewer 3: Yes, this needs all the bells and whistles adding.

> ##Also on this page

Reviewer 2: Don't quite understand this heading? Is there content missing here?

Why teach?

> ##Making a difference

Reviewer 2: Think there needs to be a break above the h2?
